---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

One piece of advice I would give someone starting this course is to always believe in themselves and that they can do this, despite the many struggles they could encounter. Such a mindset would significantly boost their confidence and make programming more fun. If someone did not believe in themselves while taking this course, they would lose so much motivation and could do very poorly in the course. The mindset has a significant bearing on your success.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

I learned that perseverance is crucial when trying to achieve a goal (in this case, it's being successful at this course). Since there will inevitably be many obstacles to face that could degrade someone's motivation and confidence, it's important to keep trying, no matter the odds, and not give up. Compared to other classes, this class pushed me to work very hard. I learned that the courage to try your best despite the struggles is vital everywhere.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

Whenever I encounter roadblocks, like bugs in my code or a difficult problem that tempts me to give up, I take a step back and do something else quickly to make my mind clearer. I then reassess my situation by trying to understand what the challenge actually is and why it's there. Then, I try to look at a roadblock from different angles, which helps me find solutions I never thought about earlier. This process proved effective for my endeavors in this class.

## What’s Next for You?

Since I very much liked the data science microprojects that I completed, I plan to pursue more microprojects from the UIUC Discovery website. For example, I can attempt the microproject about 
making an AI algorithm to identify handwritten digits. Also, I might take CS 124, which serves as a complementary course to this class.

---
