---
layout: post
title: "Day 1 - Getting Started"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
On my first day of working on this two-part project, I planned to working toward completing my first microproject about creating FIFA matches data visualizations. Specifically, I was planning to use a FIFA dataset to create a stacked bar chart representing the number of goals scored by the top 15 countries in FIFA World Cups. 

---

### What I Actually Did

However, since this is my first time working on a data science microproject on the Discovery site, I had to complete a preliminary and lengthy process that set me up for my undertaking. To summarize, I configured a git repository to connect to the 'microprojects' remote, which provided me with the Python notebook that I will be completing my microproject on. Before that, I updated Python to its latest version, 3.13.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

[What did you take away from your work this week?
It could be technical (like learning how to use Pygame or CSS Grid), strategic (such as finding a better way to plan), or personal (like discovering how you stay motivated). Your takeaway might be small (figuring out a tricky method or function) or big (like realizing how much you’ve grown as a problem solver).
Try to be specific—

For example: 
   * This: ✅ “During class, we discussed dictionaries and I realized that I can use them to organize player stats way more cleanly than using parallel lists.”

   * NOT this: ❌ “This week helped me realize I actually enjoy debugging when I understand the bigger picture.”]
In this stage of my project, I gained a variety of skills related to interacting with the computer's command prompt to run some commands, and learning different types of commands. I also learned how to work with Visual Studio Code and clone my new repository to my desktop. 
---

### What's Next

[What do you plan to tackle in the next stage of your project?]
Since I finished setting up my system for the microproject, which included installing git, Python, and Visual Studio Code and creating my own repository, I can now begin working on the actual microproject of creating data visualizations of FIFA match statistics over the centuries.
