---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

One thing I would tell someone starting this course is that they should believe in themselves and that they can do this. It is important to have such a mindset from the beginning to boost their motivation throughout this course. Also, having this mindset makes programming a lot more fun. Not having this mindset would significantly limit their success in this course.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

I learned that perseverance is important when learning a skill like programming. Not every mission or training session went smoothly; I struggled many times, was frustrated with my code's inability to function, and felt like giving up. However, I learned that with courage and patience, I can consistently make progress toward achieving my goal, even if it feels like I am not getting closer toward achieving my goal.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

Whenever I faced an obstacle and felt like giving up, I took a step back, cleared my mind, and carefully assessed the situation. I tried my best to overcome the roadblock and focused entirely on the task at hand. This concentration was key to my overcoming struggles in this course. 

## What’s Next for You?

Since I very much liked the data science microprojects, which I found were very interesting and not too hard, I plan to work on other data science microprojects from the UIUC Discovery website. Also, next semester, I might take CS 124.

---
