---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Progress"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
On this day of my project, I planned to begin my second microproject about making an AI scene recognition model. Specifically, I planned to learn how to load a video frame and find the average pixel color. I will use that knowledge to find the average pixel colors of all the video frames that I will use to train my model in preparation for finishing the microproject on the next day. These video frames were caught from every second of a lecture from the UIUC Discovery website.

---

### What I Actually Did

Today, I installed the scikit-image library that was needed to get the visual data of these images in the form of RGB. For practice, I loaded the visual data of the first frame I had and practiced finding the averages of each color of that image and the averages of the colors overall.
---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I learned the syntax to load visual data from a video frame, to find the average color of a single frame, and to find the individual average colors. Doing this, I also learned how pixel colors are stored in RGB; there are three numbers between 0 and 255 representing red, green, and blue, respectively. The higher the number, the more that color is present in the image.

---

### What's Next

Now, I will use that knowledge I gained to complete the microproject by building a classifier. I am planning to include three different categories of video frames: the setting, the notebook, and "other". I will use pixel color data to help my classifier distinguish between the video frames. At that point, the model would be complete.
